Hello, I'm Adrian Maine and this is the
OpenAI podcast. On today's episode,
we're discussing how to make
supercomputers better at training
models. Joining me are Mark Handley from
the core networking team and Greg
Steinbrecher from workload systems.
They'll discuss how a breakthrough has
made training more efficient so everyone
gets smarter models faster. This has
really allowed us to remove one of the
key barriers to continuing to scale.
We're talking about a lot of the world's
fastest GPUs and making them all work
together on a single task. We know we've
won when researchers stop needing to
know what network protocol this
particular cluster is using.
So tell me a bit about your background.
I started out uh doing physics and math
in undergrad
um
wanting to basically, you know,
understand how complex systems work.
Uh I always like the part of physics
that's about like how do you take this
thing that is like unknowably
complicated and build a simple model
that is a complete another lie but tells
you something about that system. Uh and
then build your intuition on that and
kind of build more complex models. Uh I
ended up doing a PhD trying to build
quantum computers. An ambitious PhD. You
know, little things, little things. Um
Unfortunately, what I liked is big
complicated systems and you'll note that
quantum computers don't work and
therefore they don't scale yet. They
will someday but they don't yet work. Um
so I kind of took a look at the chips we
were designing to control light for
quantum computers and I went, "Huh, that
kind of looks like a network switch.
What if we use this as a network switch?
And what I found out pretty quickly was
that academia does not know a whole lot
about what real like data center
workloads look like. You get a whole
bunch of
uh
kind of very toy models but they're not
very informative and so I ended up kind
of
pitching an industry company to get a
fellowship. They paid for the last two
years of my PhD. I ended up working
there for a while um
building out kind of doing initial
network hardware just to try to
understand like what is it that we
actually need from like data center
networks? What I found out was that like
there's a huge amount of headroom on
just like conventional data center
networking hardware, lots of room for
optimization. We did not need my little
like optical chip. We did not need to do
anything fancy like that. Um but that
there's all sorts of really fun
problems. Mhm. And then around that time
the whole AI boom started to kick off.
We decided we needed to build big GPU
clusters and in particular we needed to
build networks for those GPU clusters.
And so I got roped in on trying to build
kind of simulations of those so that we
can figure out what to build.
And then
in the process of like trying to build a
simulation of these systems, you learn a
lot about how they have to work. Mhm.
And at some point I said, well, why
don't I just go build the thing the
actual thing?
And so I transitioned from writing
software to build simulations to just
writing the software that allows GPUs to
communicate with each other.
Um
and then a little over a year ago ended
up coming here to open AI uh
to do some of the same stuff but to get
even closer to the actual model
training. Mhm. Uh so the team I'm on is
responsible for
more or less making sure that we'd use
the GPUs efficiently. So are we you
know, are the models training as quickly
as they can be? Are we not bottlenecked
on the network?
What do we do when something fails? Are
we restarting efficiently? How do we
kind of work around quirks in the
hardware? Um
and yeah, now I get to
play with some of the most fun hardware
in the world and like try to make it
try to kind of squeeze every last ounce
of performance trying to get computers
to talk to each other and do meaningful
work.
Uh
tell me more about your background. Um
so when I'm not at open AI, I'm a
professor at University College London
and I've been doing networking research
for more decades than I care to think
about. Um
originally I started working out on on
trying to make the internet do video
conferencing and you know, back then
that was a really difficult thing
because the computer was so slow.
And then we we came up with a way for
for doing that that suddenly the rest of
the world got interested in. And so the
standards we wrote for doing that are
now the things that your phone uses to
communicate with 4G and 5G networks.
Um so that was like the first part of my
of my life was trying to standardize all
of that sort of stuff that everybody
could actually take advantage of that.
Um and the problem with standardizing
things is everybody needs to agree. So
it just it takes a long time to actually
get everybody to agree on anything.
Um
a while back I got interested in in what
was happening in the data center world.
And it had a the big advantage that you
could actually do something different
because you only needed to agree within
one building, not the whole world. So
that was how I got into thinking, well,
this data center networking stuff is a
really interesting place to be. Well,
it's an interesting problem because
I think that just the idea that we'd be
scaling as many GPUs as we are now, it
just it's happened so fast, happened so
quickly. And often, you know, we're
still using GPUs which are graphical
processing units. You know, we're just
now starting to use next generation
chips to do this. So how much has been
the work required just to update the way
we think about it and update the sort of
the what the tools we're using for this,
which is here we're to talk about with
uh multipath reliable connection. So
from a network um point of view, the
data centers that we traditionally used
to build, they they kind of got derived
from what we used to do in the internet.
And when you when you do communication
in the internet, you have lots and lots
of people communicating. It's like
there's a lot lot of data moving around.
But you
they're all doing their own separate
conversations. And so generally
speaking, the the if the more
communications you add onto the same
shared network, the more things smooth
out and become even.
And so that's great. You can take
advantage of the statistics of large
numbers.
Unfortunately, when you look at what
we're doing when we're training things,
it's exactly the opposite from that.
We're talking about a lot of the world's
fastest GPUs and making them all work
together on a single task, um which is
why this stuff gets hard. That process
of basically ingesting all of this data
and teaching the allowing the
AI model to learn from that data
in parallel is what allows us to build
smarter, better models. But, let's say
one GPU goes a little slow.
Well, now all the other GPUs have to
wait for it. That's all wasted time. Or
one of the GPUs, you know, a cosmic ray
hits it and some bits flip and it stops.
Well, okay, now that whole step is maybe
not useful and we have to maybe roll
back or kind of stop and take stock of
what has happened. And while we stop and
take stock, like all the GPUs are not
doing useful work. Yeah, a key thing
here is that the communication between
the GPUs is actually part of the
computation. Mhm. It's like that they're
doing one big computation across all of
them. It's not that they're doing
different things. We have to actually
have them communicate with each other in
order to agree on what the the result of
that step of computation is. And that's
just about the worst possible workload
you could think to put onto a network.
And so the the way the industry has
evolved over the last couple of decades
has been slowly coming up with with
improvements on how we actually do that.
But until recently, the scale wasn't
enough that it really mattered. You
could get away with doing the same sort
of things we did on the internet, just
bigger. Um but you can't get away with
that anymore. And that's why we try to
think of different ways to actually
solve these problems to cope with these
very synchronized workloads as we scale
things up. AI has upended a lot of
things in the world. Um it has
definitely upended the way that
technology companies have to think about
the data centers that they're building.
So,
conventional hyperscalers for kind of a
the web era, um
the teams that built this were very kind
of disconnected from the individual
workloads, you know. The the goal was to
basically just provide an ocean of
compute. AI has forced us to think very
differently. Um and OpenAI in particular
has been kind of at the forefront of
realizing that the systems and the
design of the systems is integral to the
training of the models. And that you
can't just have your infrastructure team
sit over here in one building and kind
of just deliver an ocean of compute and
your model team sit over here and like
try to make the best, you know, model
that they can on that compute. You
really have to do kind of a co-design
across these whole things. Um,
and so, you know, we on my team sit
literally next to the researchers and
talk with them every day about, you
know, how they can best
you know, how their workloads fit best
onto the existing servers. And in doing
that, we learn a lot about where the
pain points are.
And, you know, we are on call for the
big training runs. You know, we get
woken up in the middle of the night if
something is broken and can't be fixed.
And so, in through that process, you
know, and you start to go, "Oh, well,
what if in the next generation we fix
these problems? What if we didn't build
data centers with the same properties as
we did for web scale workloads? What if
we instead, you know, fix this piece or
this piece or this piece?"
And
uh, I think the network has been a real
source of pain for us. Yeah, so, when
you're building a data center network,
all of these GPUs, because they do this
computation and they all need to talk at
the same time, you need a lot of
bandwidth. And the problem with that is
you can't build that with with a single
switch or even a hierarchy of switches.
You have to build hierarchies of
hierarchies of switches. And so, that
means that when you communicate from one
GPU to a different GPU, there are many
different paths your traffic could take
through that network. Thousands of
through the network because we build so
many different switches in there.
There's
uh, several thousand switches in one of
these buildings.
Um, now that gives us an interesting
problem, which is which path do you take
from one place to the other? And if you
if you basically have the requirement
that I want to be able to send from one
GPU to another GPU as fast as possible,
and I choose, say, a random path through
the network. If I get lucky and nobody
else chooses the same path, then great.
But if I get unlucky and two people
choose the same path, we go slower. And
if 10 people choose the same path, we go
really slow. And so, this this
statistical multiplexing that we used to
have when we designed the internet just
doesn't work out very well when we're
trying to build these networks for our
data centers. And so, that's where we
came in to try and design things
somewhat differently. Maybe to put a
fine point on that, the synchronous
nature of the workload that we talked
about earlier is why this becomes such a
problem.
>> Mhm.
It is not about how fast can the average
pair of GPUs talk to each other. It's
always, what is the absolute worst case
that occurs? Mhm. So, if you think about
you've got thousands of GPUs that are
trying to talk to each other. So,
there's tens of thousands or hundreds of
thousands of network flows
on tens of thousands of links. What you
have to do is you have to look at that
entire network and go, what is the link
that got most bottlenecked here? That
one link is going to set how fast all of
your GPUs are able to work, and how much
time it takes for you to move data
through this, cuz everything is
proceeding in lockstep.
And so,
whereas previously we might have been
subject to or kind of taken advantage of
average statistics, we don't have that
luxury anymore. We instead are subject
to like the tail of the tail. We call
P100, the 100th percentile statistics.
And that leads to very different systems
requirements than when you can kind of
rely on the law of large numbers to take
care of you.
And so, the other problem with this is
that when you build your networks, we
build the best possible networks we can.
We go to the best equipment vendors. We
we best optics and so forth. When you
really scale things really big,
things are always going to be failing.
Um links will fail, switches will get
confused and will have to be rebooted
and so forth. Any one of these failures
is going to affect the traffic running
over the network. And so, if you've got
this problem where we only care about
the the 100th percentile and then a link
fails in the network,
what happens? Well, stuff will fail. We
may have uh time before the routing
reconverges, and then we move the
traffic onto a different path. We take a
glitch there. That can be quite a long
glitch. That can cost us. Or worse, we
can actually cause one of these
communication transfers to fail. A
single transfer fails, and you can end
up with the whole job crashing. And so,
that's We really want to avoid that kind
of problem. We want to build a a way of
using these networks that is resilient
to not only the potential transient
congestion we might build in the
network, but also when things fail, we
just want to be able to carry on and
basically not notice. But that requires
that we actually design the network
protocols differently from the start.
You can't retrofit this onto existing
network protocols. Yeah, it's an it's a
very interesting problem as you describe
it, because I can see that where you
could say like, "Oh, well, if we have a
thousand GPUs, there's only one chance
out of ten that they're going to fail."
or whatever. And now I have a hundred
thousand GPUs, well, guess what? I'm
going to have a failure all the time.
And that's what you have to sort of
solve for each time you scale it. So,
where does this break?
Everywhere. Everywhere. Right. There you
go. If you think about sort of the mean
time between failure of the equipment,
for any particular range of equipment,
you've got some time some time between
which something will fail somewhere in
your building. Yeah. And of course, the
bigger we get, if you
with the same cost of equipment, that
that time comes down and further and
further. And eventually, you get to a
point where actually, something is
failing sufficiently often that you
don't get any work done on a large
sequence workload. And yeah, that's We
can't have that happen. So, we have to
do things differently to make that work.
Maybe Yeah, so the the the very simple
math here is that you can basically
assume that if failures are independent,
and you double the size of your system,
you're going to have half the time
between failures, right? Your mean time
to failure goes down by half.
The important thing to think about here
for the network is for every GPU,
we have tens, if not hundreds of network
components. So, even just like say
you've got one GPU connected to one
network adapter.
In that network adapter,
if it has an optical transceiver in it,
maybe you'll have four lasers. On the
other end of that transceiver, you'll
have another four lasers. And so,
already, just connecting that one GPU
just to its first top switch, you got an
order of magnitude more lasers than you
have GPUs.
Now, add in multiple layers of
switching, and you start to get into,
you know, several orders of magnitude
more components in the network than you
have kind of at the edge of your
network. Because we need to have so much
bandwidth here. So, we have to build
these networks. We can't, you know,
kind of taper them down and only have a
couple of components in the network, cuz
then we'd be starving the GPUs. They
wouldn't be able to actually kind of use
their full capability to do math as
quickly as possible. Instead, we would
have kind of we would just be letting
them sit idle and wasting time, money,
energy. Uh we would get trained models
more slowly. It would be bad. So, we
build a very big network, but now you
have
many, many, many more components in that
network than you have maybe at the edge
of your network.
>> literally millions of optical links
within the same building. So, that's
huge scale. You know, you mentioned that
data centers originally were I go do
something to search the cloud, to get my
email, whatever. I may be talking to one
server, there might be a backup there.
The idea that we would be having
more computers inside a data center
talking to each other than we did just a
few years ago, people trying to connect
to it.
And so, how have these protocols
evolved? One of the things that got me
into networking in the first place, I
have a very distinct memory of I was at
a conference,
uh O F C, it's an optical communications
conference, back in 2017, and they had a
presenter from Facebook.
And he put a chart up uh that had a it
was a stacked line chart of the traffic
that they served to their end users,
and the traffic that goes inside of
their data centers. Mhm.
>> And the traffic inside of their data
centers was just exploding,
even while the kind of amount of traffic
that they were sending to end users was
staying constant. And this is way before
GPU clusters and AI. So, this is
what AI does is it takes all of the
systems challenges that people were
having previously, and it cranks them up
to 11. So, to address this,
you've been on a method, a multi-path
reliability connection. The insight was
basically that
you have
we try to manage congestion in networks.
And so
there are several pieces that you can
pull together and do this. And the first
part of the insight was if you spray the
packets across many paths, you can load
balance those paths through the network
really equally. And if you do that, and
you build a network topology that has
enough capacity, then you don't cause
hotspots in the network. It leaves one
place where you have congestion, which
is if multiple people try to send to the
same destination at the same time.
But it also leaves you some problems
because the packets can get jumbled up
in transit because they're taking
different paths. And so if you do manage
to cause congestion and cause loss, it's
a little bit difficult to figure out
whether you got loss or whether you
should still be waiting for packets
because, you know, they got jumbled up
in transit.
And so the second piece of this is a a
technique we call packet trimming,
which is
if you would if you if you're causing
congestion in the network and you would
overflow a queue, normally we'd just
drop the packet. And then we've got
ambiguity. Did it get lost? Did it get
lost? How long do I need to wait for it?
Um but what we do instead is we will
trim off the payload of the packet and
just forward the little tiny packet head
to the destination, which can
immediately request a retransmission and
we can retransmit that packet. And that
totally removes the sense of ambiguity
as to whether we lost packets due to
congestion or whether we should still be
waiting for them because they got
reordered. Interesting. So it just just
making sure that
the part saying are you there goes
through and then you can figure that out
and then send the rest.
>> Yes, you really need to know that you
should still be waiting for it or you
should not still be waiting for it.
What does this mean for the end user?
The biggest thing that this means is
that you're going to get
better models, more intelligent models,
faster from Open AI. So MRC allows us to
accelerate every part of our research
and deployment pipeline.
Um it allows individual users to not
worry about their jobs failing, not
worry about how their job has gotten
scheduled, and whether the performance
of it is going to be different because
they're, you know, placed on the same
rack as someone else's job.
Uh it allows us to
train frontier models
um much faster, more reliably,
uh and really just to turn the entire
crank of that pipeline much faster and
much more reliably. So, you should
expect to see uh
an ever-increasingly exciting pipeline
of releases from us.
The vibes are good.
>> The vibes are good.
>> Vibes are very good. The idea um
came out of a lot of research work that
we've had over over the last few
decades. We're We're not fundamentally
inventing anything new. We're just doing
things that other people invented, but
pulling the combination together into a
set of features. So, the
um
we we formed this this group of people
who were all interested in doing this,
and um
last year we finally got to the point
where we were um able to deploy this,
and we went from in a few months from
the the first hardware available to
actually running and training models,
and it actually all operating. So, the
this has the result that we don't cause
that congestion that we talked about
before. Um the the second very nice
property is that if something fails in
the network, every single one of these
flows that go through there will
probably be affected by the failure.
But, it'll only be affected a little
bit. Mhm. And within
few round trip times across the network,
we stopped using a failed link. And so,
this problem of links failing bringing
down the uh the network just goes away.
All of the flows themselves from the
network interface at one side network
interface are just avoiding those
failures as we go through the network.
>> So, it's self-healing. Exactly. Yes. So,
I think Mark has mildly undersold this,
uh but maybe we should uh
>> Mark, come on, man.
So, conventionally, when a link goes
down on network, what happens is, you
know, one side of that link, the switch
at the one side of that link, or maybe
both sides of that link, notices. But,
then it has to tell all of its neighbors
that that link went down. And then, they
have to tell all of their neighbors that
that link went down. And so, you have a
distributed systems problem.
Uh it's conventionally solved with a
technology called BGP, uh Border Gateway
Protocol, which is basically just like a
gossip protocol that allows, you know,
one link over here to eventually tell
this switch all the way over here, maybe
through five or seven hops through the
network, that, "Hey, you can't get to
this destination if you take this link.
You have to use this these other links."
That's a distributed systems problem
that has a convergence time.
What MRC has done is it has taken that
and it has
broken the need to coordinate. Every
endpoint independently
very quickly detects, "Hey, that path I
shouldn't use that path."
and just stops using it.
And this is
maybe counterintuitive because you would
think, "Oh, it's easier if I just have
some central authority that tells me
that, you know, this link is down and
and then I and that central central
authority can distribute that
information." Anybody who's waited for a
website to update knows that that's not
going to work.
>> Right. Uh central authorities are,
generally speaking, also known as single
points of failure.
Um and so, instead, what we've done here
is we no longer have to wait for this
whole convergence process to to occur,
which can take seconds or, in the tail,
tens of seconds.
Instead, everyone within, generally
speaking, milliseconds notices and just
stops using that link.
This is a very big deal cuz previously,
you know, the link goes down and the
whole job stops for a few seconds as we
wait for kind of the network to
stabilize.
That's time again that the GPUs aren't
doing useful work. And as you, again,
scale up, you're going to have more and
more and more of those individual little
seconds. And here, now,
what we've observed is that, like,
you know, we turned this on as we were
basically as the data center was being
built.
Uh as Mark said, we were able to, you
know, get it jobs up and training within
months of hardware arriving.
There's a lot of manual labor that goes
into building one of these buildings.
There's a lot of kind of shared points
where fibers from one data hall are
coming in and technicians are trying to
assemble another data hall or things
like that.
And so, what we saw was that because of
all of this kind of manual effort that
was going on, links were going up and
down all the time. Like, way even way
more often than you would have kind of
hope in just due to natural failures.
We did not care. We didn't even notice.
MRC just took care of it. It just kind
of would detect, "Hey, can't use that
path. Move on to the next one."
Didn't care. It was incredible. So, the
other thing this gives you, um, beyond
just that, is because once it's handling
that by itself, once MRC is already
working around the failures, the
traditionally, we would probably still
have been running a routing protocol in
the network to find the path that
actually work. But, routing protocols
themselves are complicated, and switches
are complicated, and switch software is
complicated, and these are all things
that can fail.
And we realized that actually, MRC
itself was able to figure out which path
was still working. And so, actually, we
just decided that we would turn off the
routing protocols. We use completely
static routing in the switches at the
largest possible scale.
And
oh, so some paths are broken. Who cares?
MRC will find the broken work ones that
still work and and keep going. And that
just removes a whole set of complexity
out of our network management that we
just don't need anymore. We don't care
about whether the switch control plane
has converged because it doesn't need
to. It's entirely static. They have a
configuration that they have at boot
time. They boot up and they never change
their routing tables from then onwards.
So,
this is a very big effort working with a
bunch of people. Care to talk about some
of the partners?
Yeah, we've been working with with
Microsoft, um, who build our fair water
data centers for us, and then we've been
working with Nvidia, Broadcom, AMD, and
Intel to standardize, um, this
specification, and uh, and with all of
these guys to actually build our
hardware for our for our new
supercomputers. It's interesting because
as a user of this technology
and you listen to sort of the way we
sort of think about things where people
talk about like when's the next model
coming out like it's a software update
that comes up every year but it's not
every every model is essentially a
research project and it's dependent upon
what goes on in the training and
you try to have an estimate of how long
it's going to take and we try to predict
where that's going to be
but this kind of reliability sounds like
it's going to be an incredible
advantage.
God, yeah.
I would say
uh
from talking to the people who were here
even earlier. I mean
you hear just horror stories about what
it was like, how often they were getting
woken up. I remember walking in the
cafeteria and seeing some of the people
work on network and sort of sad faces
because they didn't know why something
had stopped in a run and it was just
Yeah. Um
I we have heard nothing but universally
positive feedback about how stable the
clusters with MRCI are, how well they're
working, how basically the
researchers don't have to think about
this anymore. And then you look at the
statistics and you realize just how much
stuff is breaking all the time and
they're not noticing. Yeah, it's um is
it I mean to some degree this is the
ideal, right? I mean I know I said
earlier, right? We are we are pushing
the limits of infrastructure and so
there's never going to be a time that
you can just completely ignore infra.
Uh you know, the ideal world right is
researchers don't have to think about
this but that's never going to be the
case. But every time we we know we've
won when researchers stop saying, you
know, network or stop you know, stop
needing to know what network protocol
this particular cluster is using and
yeah, it's been
it's been really nice to basically be
able to focus all of because there's
don't get me wrong, there's plenty of
other things that break, there's plenty
of other work to do but this has really
allowed us to remove one of the key
barriers to continuing to scale and to
being able to deliver newer and better
models
on a much
you know, we are we are trying to scale
everywhere including our velocity. And
you've all decided to make this open to
everybody views. Yeah, so the the
specification is due out through uh
through OCP as an open standard and uh
we've
as you say, decided to
open this up for everybody to use.
Um
we're big beliefs in in open standards
and open source. Uh we're building all
of our networks on top of Ethernet which
itself is an open standard and
we benefit when the industry has
velocity. When the industry can keep up
with the things that we are trying to do
on the challenging side of things. And
so it's it's in everybody's interest if
we're all trying to actually deploy what
we think are the best solutions in this
space.
There's no shortage of coverage of the
scale of the AI buildout. Um
I think person on a personal level I
think it would be a real shame if that
supply chain was fractured. Right? You
have people investing in totally
different
um
technologies and underlying hardware
just because they're you know, trying to
get some small advantage. I think it is
I mean, I'm really excited that this is
going to be open standard. I think it
will really benefit other people outside
of Open AI. Mhm.
It also benefits all of us if we are
kind of all pushing in the same
direction.
Uh
infrastructure is kind of this like
shared fate of the whole industry. And I
think it is
a very good thing that we are open
sourcing this and kind of bringing
everyone along. It seems like it it's
beneficial too because everything is
becoming very collaborative and
even you know, you take a project like
Stargate which is multiple locations,
many partners across the world and
Microsoft uh Fairwater and sort of this
idea that compute is a thing that uh
there's never going to be enough of it
and the more we kind of work with each
other to figure out how to maximize it
and continue doing it, probably the
better it's going to be for everybody
involved than treating it like
I mean it is a very limited resource,
but these protocols like you said
before, you know, with Ethernet whatnot,
that's really what gave us, you know,
what we have and things like the World
Wide Web and a lot of the cool things
where we realized, oh,
share this because what we're going to
benefit is going to be so much better.
Yeah, what we're trying to do is is hard
enough without everybody having to
reinvent the wheel all the time.
We think this is
the right way to go and we'd like
everybody else to go in the same
direction as us. Where were the limits
of this? MRC is a flexible standard.
>> Okay. Um, it builds on top of Ethernet,
so as Ethernet scales, so will MRC.
>> Mhm. Um,
you can think of Ethernet as the kind of
the protocol that that individual
devices use to talk to each other.
MRC sits on top of that.
Um, it incorporates kind of the
this static routing that Mark is talking
about. It incorporates
a what we call congestion control, which
is basically if we do end up in
situations because of failed links or
choices that we make about how we send
traffic, uh, how the endpoints should
react to that to make sure that we kind
of use the network fairly and
efficiently. Um,
my experience with networking is that
there will always be more work to do.
There's always going to be ways we can
improve that, make the network more
fair. There's fundamental limits on
networks, specifically the speed of
light is a known speed limit. And so,
the amount of time that it takes for
light to get from one point to another
in a network has some lower limits on
it, but we're going to keep making each
of those links faster and faster. And
so, that will always kind of change the
operating point of basically how much
data you have outstanding per connection
at a given time and that will always
require kind of ongoing engineering
effort to make sure that we're making
the best use of the hardware that we
have in a given generation.
I think MRC gives us a very like
flexible and strong base to build on as
we continue to push through the next few
generations.
And the key thing is because as you say,
it's Ethernet based. I mean, Ethernet is
Ethernet now is not only Ethernet was 10
years ago or 20 years ago or 30 years
ago or even 40 years ago. Ethernet
itself has evolved so much over the
years, and
we can just what we're doing is we're
taking advantage of the all of that
development by the whole world's
networking industries. And so,
we want to make sure we carry on riding
that that wave of innovation that has
taken Ethernet forward. Um, so
given that all of that's happening
anyway,
with MRC, because it takes the
intelligence which is at the edge of the
network, we can scale the cores of our
networks as as long as Ethernet keeps
scaling. And there's no particularly
obvious reason why that's not going to
keep scaling for at least the at least
the near future. And
who knows? Maybe smarter people than me
will figure out how to make it work for
another 40 years.
One of the key things we're doing though
is trying to actually move the
complexity out of the network.
>> Yeah. So, as I mentioned, we're we're we
turn off the routing, and we're we're
each packet is actually source routed
through the network or using a a
technique called IPv6 segment routing,
which allows each individual packet's
address to list the precise set of of
switches the packet goes through as it
goes through the network. And that means
that the switches themselves can be
really dumb. Um, it's really nice to be
able to sort of simplify a a key part of
the network. And as you're trying to
scale and make things scale reliably,
making the middle of the network as
simple as possible has huge benefits to
us. The other piece here is, you know,
you mentioned Ethernet has this rich,
wonderful history. We're still building
on Ethernet. That's because it's an open
standard. That's because the entire
industry has bought it and is pushing in
the same direction. And that's exactly
what we want to see from MRC also is we
want to see basically the next layer get
kind of
ready for the systems challenges of AI
and get widely adopted. We don't we
don't think that this would do as well
if it was an OpenAI exclusive.
>> Mhm.
With OpenAI investing the time and the
energy and the people into solving these
problems, it does seem like even though
you're making MRC available to everybody
by having teams now working on this,
it's got to be providing a lot of
benefits and advantage. I think it's a
lot of benefits. So again, my my role is
from the perspective of like how do we
get
how do we make the most use of what we
have? Um
not literally in a conservationist
sense, but in in some sense it is,
right? Like if we're going to be burning
the power on these things, uh we want it
to be used productively and we want it
to be used efficiently.
Another one of the advantages is uh of
MRC is because it has this property of
allowing us to spray over multiple
paths,
we can build much simpler, much smaller
networks that have many fewer devices in
it. So, this is not an obvious property,
but basically we're able to build
networks that are much flatter and
basically have many fewer layers of
switches and use much less power. They
also cost a lot less.
And the amount of useful work you can do
per watt goes up when you do that
because you're not spending extra power
on these extra layers of switches,
the power is more generally going
directly to the GPUs and allowing them
to actually do work. When you train
models and it start off with text models
and with certain context windows, so
there's a certain amount of data that
needed to go about. And then as you go
into multi-modal models, is there a
difference between training let's say an
image model or a video model or just a
multi-modal model? Um
I probably can't get into the details of
model architecture, but I will say that
as our models get more advanced, the
demands that they place on the systems
get m-
substantially harder. Okay.
>> Um
the amount of, you know,
the amount of data that you have to move
and the the latency bound on doing that,
so they basically the
the regret that you have if your network
goes a little bit too slowly just gets
worse and worse and worse as the
training cluster size gets bigger and as
you continue to optimize the rest of the
stack.
Um cuz obviously we have, you know,
many, many very smart people who are
trying to push in the same direction
and make these models very, very
efficient. They we we all want the next
version of ChatGPT faster and we want it
to be smarter.
Uh we all One of the big strengths of
Open AI is that
we have all of these incredibly smart
people pushing in one direction and, you
know, you have the researchers and you
have the infrastructure people and
everyone kind of knows what our goal is.
And so we have very smart people who are
trying to make the work that happens on
the GPU go faster.
And all that means is that now we have a
tighter bound on how long the network
has to transfer things cuz if we are the
ones who are lagging behind,
their work doesn't matter. And so our
work never stops.
Um as these things get bigger, the
variance in,
you know,
whatever the slowest computation is goes
up. Uh we have to work on controlling
that tail. Similarly on the network side
of things, you need to kind of pull
things in.
Um
like one piece that when Mark was
talking about this kind of splitting
over many network links,
one thing that's like mildly
non-obvious about this is that if you
did this without MRC,
uh
the tail statistics actually get much
worse. So if you take the same amount of
bandwidth and have more paths,
uh you end up
basically having worse tail statistics
cuz there's you're throwing the same
number of balls into more bins, the
ratio of kind of the best bit the worst
bin to the average bin gets much worse.
And so that deterministic routing that
Mark talked about where we can do this
kind of
very careful load balancing across these
very
uh
huge number of links
is very important to avoid
getting into a bad situation that we
would then have to kind of have a
feedback loop to recover from.
Um and so
kind of all of these pieces of the stack
are extremely tightly coupled together,
right? It is extremely important that we
have kind of low-level network hardware
people who have some understanding of
what is happening at the workload layer.
And then we have people at the workload
layer who have some understanding of
what the heck is going on inside a
network switch. Um, we really wouldn't
be able to push kind of the boundaries
of how big you can make these systems
without that kind of vertical
integration and everyone pushing in the
same direction.
When people talk about data centers and
we you mentioned this earlier, you know,
there's what you use for training,
there's what you use for inference. When
I ask ChatGPT, I don't need to talk to a
whole data center, I need a few GPUs are
going to answer this question. And
there's been talk about like, well, the
next step is we're going to put things
into space. And and my my question's
always been like, I can get like I have
a satellite with some GPUs, it's doing
inference, but when you're literally
spreading things out across th-
thousands or hundred thousands of miles
in a big network, it seems like you lose
all of your advantage for speed. The
speed of light is your enemy versus
being in one center. It's hard to
envisage doing the sort of training that
we do in in our um, Stargate uh, data
centers in space.
Um, just the latency would be a a huge
problem. And just the background rate of
failures would be a problem. And just,
yeah, we have technicians from Microsoft
and Oracle who have to go in and fix
things all the time, every day. Hard to
do that in orbit. Yeah. Yeah, I think
you can make all sorts of arguments. And
I have gotten I've gotten very deep on
this, as I said, I have a physics
background. I'm very interested in,
you know, I I worked with people who
designed satellites.
>> Yeah, you know people doing LISA and
things like that.
>> Yeah, but I think a lot of smart people
have had very reasonable arguments both
ways on that direct on that dimension.
The major barriers, I think, are the the
rate of failure. I mean,
every GPU, every generation of GPU, the
GPU itself gets more powerful and more
expensive and more important. Um,
I think we are doing incredible work
here on Earth to try to kind of route
around failures automatically, but I
think that you would find yourself with
a lot of hardware that you couldn't use
very quickly if you start shipping these
things into space.
Now, is there a world in which you can
also put technicians in space? Maybe.
You can do all sorts of things.
The
dreamer side of me says that would be
really, really cool. Yeah. The practical
side of me says it's really, really hard
to do this stuff on Earth. Yeah. Like
every day we are trying to push limits
on all sorts of dimensions. Even just
spinning up MRC Yeah. was a huge effort
that required very close collaboration
with us and engineers at a number of
other companies.
Um, and it required in some cases, you
know, hands-on machines to fix things,
to test things, etc.
These systems are hard enough to build
and make work and make perform
here on Earth. I think
trying to push the boundaries of that
and also adding additional
complications, uh, you have to make a
really strong case for why it makes
sense to do it in space. So, build more
terrestrial computer centers. Please.
Yeah.
I mean, that is that is what we are
trying to do here is
build a lot of compute so that we can
increase the net amount of intelligence
in the world. It's awesome.
Gentlemen, thank you very much. Thank
you.